Inference is the task of making statements
about things you can't observe.
This lecture's about the ingredients you
need to make useful inferences from data.
So the goal of inference is to be able
to make statements about things we
can't really observe directly.
And we also want to be able to
characterize our uncertainty about
those statements that we make.
So these things that we can't observe,
the things that we wanna make inferences
about, these are usually referred
to generally as the population.
Okay, and then to make inference,
what we do is we collect
a sample from the population.
And the sampling process that we
use results in our dataset, okay.
So we have a dataset that results
from a sampling process that
draws from a population.
So to make inferences from data,
you need three simple ingredients.
First, you need to be able
to identify the population
to which you're making these inferences.
Of course you have to have a question
about that population, but
that's kind of secondary.
Once you've identified the population,
then you can talk coherently about
what you're making inference about.
The next thing you need to be able to
do is to describe the sampling process.
You need to be able to tell a story about
how the data came from the population and
ended up in your lap.
Okay?
If you can't describe that process,
then it is going to be very
hard to understand how
valid your inferences are from the data.
The better and more clearly you can
describe how the data came to you,
the stronger your results will be.
Now the last thing you need is a model for
the population.
You need a model for how either elements
of the population interact with each other
or how they're related to each other.
So defining the population is far and
away the most important task.
If you can't coherently
describe the population,
then you can't really make any inferences.
Okay because there's nothing
to make inference to.
So make sure that you can accurately
characterize your population.
It's gonna help you tell the story better
in the end after you analyze the data.
So similarly it's important that you
identify an important question that you
wanna ask.
Just get an answer.
But presumably you've done this already.
[COUGH] So just as a very quick,
simple running example,
here's a basic population of ten penguins.
Okay, and each of these penguins has
a turquoise hat or a purple hat.
And so
the basic question that we wanna ask is,
what proportion of this population of
penguins is wearing a turquoise hat?
So, that's basically it.
Now, the problem, of course,
is that we can't collect data
on the population, right?
Cuz they're penguins after all, and
we can't take care of all of them, so
we need to draw a sample
from this population.
So the sampling process is the manner
in which the data come to you, and
this gives you the dataset.
So, let's say we're going
to sample three penguins,
and the way that we sample those
three penguins is, we stand there in
front of these ten penguins and we take
the first three that walk up to us, okay?
So then we have our dataset
of just three penguins.
And so, now the model for the population
describes how the features of
the units in the population
are related to each other, okay?
And this model can be more or
less complex depending on the type of
question that we're trying to answer.
But the important thing is that the model
connects the data that we observe
to the population that we don't observe.
All right?
And so, it's basically a little
cartoon of how the world works.
So a couple of example of what a model
might consist of is that we might assume,
for example, that the units of the
population are independent of each other.
So imagine that the different
penguins in this population
are wearing different hats.
And the fact that one penguin is wearing
a turquoise hat doesn't really influence
whether another penguin is gonna wear
a purple hat or a turquoise hat.
So they're all kind of
independent of each other.
That's one assumption that we'll
make as part of our model.
Another intentional assumption
that we might want to make is that
certain features of the population
are linearly related.
So there are linear
relationships between them.
And there are many other kinds of things
that you might wanna assume about
a population if your question's
a little bit more complex.
Now the question that we're
asking here is very simple.
We just wanna know what's the proportion
of penguins with turquoise hats.
So we don't have to make too many
assumptions about the population in order
to order that question.
So given our little data
set here of three penguins,
we want to estimate what's the proportion
with turquoise hats in the population.
So from the dataset we can estimate
that it's one-third of the dataset.
One-third of the penguins
have turquoise hats so
we'll assume that one-third of
the population wears turquoise hats.
So that's what we're gonna
infer from our dataset.
Our final estimate is one-third or
.33 penguins with turquoise hats.
Now it turns out because we know
the population that the truth is about
point four penguins actually wear
turquoise hats, or two-fifths, okay?
So our estimate is 0.3 roughly and
the truth is point four.
And so the question is well how do we
know if 0.3 or 0.33 is a good estimate?
So we'll talk about that
in the next lecture.
In terms of how do you know whether
you've made a good inference or not.
But the point is that our estimate
is .33 and the truth is .4.
So there's a variation
there as we would expect.
But that's our estimate for
the population level feature.